## Auto Car Sales Demand, Prices and Income: A Statistical Study Using Functional Data Analysis and Time Series.

The automobile industry has a fundamental impact on the economic activity in United States and world. The global automotive industry is estimated to grow to just under 9 trillion dollars by 2030 and new vehicle sales will account for 38% of this value. Acknowledging the fact that US automotive market is one of the largest in the world, in this paper we will explore the US market characteristics focusing on the demand with other explanatory variables.
Previous studies had been conducted using the different models and variables, however some of them used non recent time periods. The purpose of this study is to investigate key aspects of the US automobile market and give a pretext for more exhaustive studies of recent issues. Our main objective is to understand the relationship between the car prices and the consumers’ disposable income through the estimation of the new cars demand. This is done using monthly data from 2005 to 2020 and developing a time series Vector Error Correction Model.
In our study we have used lagged explanatory variables to define a demand function for the new auto sales and the long-run relationship between them. Average auto price emerged as not an important factor for the shift in the demand function (as many previous studies depict) and the disposable income is proportionally related to the demand.
From our model, price elasticity is greater than 1, meaning the reaction of the demand is relatively sensitive to the changes in price.
Our main premise is that the price growth rate is greater than the disposable income growth rate, and this would lead to a decrease in the demand. Even if the price is not significant in our model, further research should be conducted in order to better predict the demand, to understand the relationship between price and income, and to investigate the role of interest rates and loans in the automobile industry.
